Welcome to the Life Church Podcast.
We are an Acts 2 42 community, a family on a mission to bring a life of Jesus to warranty.
We hope you're ready to hear what God has to say to you today through His Word and by His Spirit.
This morning we're going to think about, talk about, reflect upon
And I trust activate the truth of what is perhaps arguably the central point of the gospel message of the Christian.
And that is that Jesus Christ died for our sins.
There was a price to be paid.
There was a cost to bear.
And Jesus in his own body on the cross paid a debt that we could not pay to live a life that we don't.
deserve.
Now many of you know that we being myself, my wife and at least two of our children, the third one, missed out on this season in life.
We lived in Monaco for a while and as much as that was lovely to live by the ocean, one of the challenges of living in Monaco is the price.
It's expensive and if it was down to us and our means we would probably just be living off bread and water
while we were there.
But what we did have to do was to trust in the means of other people.
And so there would be times when we would be invited to a restaurant and you would sit down and the waiter would come over and they would pass you the menu and you would look at the menu and you would see all of these wonderful dishes all in a language that I didn't understand.
But I knew enough to know there was some good stuff on the menu.
but then just to the right hand side of the menu was the price.
And so the menu told you all these amazing things that you could have on one condition, that there was somebody sat at the table who had the means to pay the price.
Because without the payment, there was no substance.
You wanted the substance somebody needed to meet.
the payment.
And fortunately, while the church wasn't replete with people of, it wasn't replete with millionaires and billionaires, so to speak, there were at times enough people that if we were invited out to dinner, we could look across them sheepishly and we could indicate to them through our body language and a kind of a shy smile, is it okay to trust you with the bill on this one?
Otherwise, as I said, our diet would have been very, very different.
And if we as Christians, and of course, if you are not a Christian, you want to enjoy the blessing of God, the favor of God, the goodness of God and the forgiveness of God, God the Father says there is a price to pay.
Now, the problem for us is that none of us have the means to pay the price of that forgiveness, that goodness.
and that favor.
But Jesus himself stepped in our place, laid down his life, and with his own blood, he purchased the salvation of all who would look to him in faith.
Just a couple of verses from Romans the book that we're studying this morning that describes some of the essence of this.
Romans 6, 23 says, for the wages of sin is death.
Not one of the wages, not one of the ways of paying sin is death.
The only wage is death, unless somebody is there to pay the wages.
Romans 5, 8, but God demonstrates his own love for us in this, that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us, paraphrase in our place.
An Old Testament passage that we know and love
Certainly we read it a lot here in this congregation, his Isaiah 53 and verse 5 says this, Our sin was upon him and by his wounds we are healed.
It's the blood of Jesus, the sacrifice of Jesus, the death of Jesus that pays the sin price that we could not pay.
There is power, there is power, wonder-working power in the blood of the Lamb.
The evangelist Billy Graham, most of you I assume know who Billy Graham is.
He's gone to be with the Lord some years ago.
In 1955, he was given the opportunity to go and preach at Cambridge University.
And because, as he believed, there were lots of people there who were going to be more scholarly than him,
He had four nights to preach.
And so he had prepared what he felt was a kind of a high-faluting message about Jesus.
He'd done his research.
He'd bought in, you know, some thoughts maybe from Sartre and some of the ancient philosophers and Plato and others that he felt that he could just build into the sermons that he was going to share so that people didn't think he was a dummy.
And so for three nights out of four, he was preaching his message, drawing on the thoughts and the ideas of the people he felt would be passing as clever enough for the people to pay attention in the congregation.
He had people like John Stott who was there helping him at his aid and some other people you might recognize that were in the audience.
But he knew there were going to be plenty of people there in the congregation who felt that Cambridge University deserved a very sophisticated message.
But at the end of the third night, Billy reflecting on what was happening, and that wasn't very much.
There wasn't a great deal going on.
So he made a decision that on the fourth night at the St Mary's Church, which was the main church that was used by Cambridge University, he was going to only preach about the blood of Jesus.
Nothing else.
And so he went on and talked about how from Genesis through to Revelation there was a theme about the sacrifice of blood being the thing that unlocked the power of God.
He talked about that when Adam and Eve sinned
Their fig leaf covering of their sin was insufficient, and God clothed them with animal skin, which by implication required the death of an animal.
He talked about how Abel presented a sacrifice of the first fruits of his livestock, which was considered an acceptable offering to God.
He talked about how Noah, after he came through the flood and then began to re-establish humanity after the flood, it says that he sacrificed animals as a thank offering to God
after the flood.
Now, let me just pause on that for a little moment.
I felt that was quite funny this week.
Imagine if you were one of the animals on the ark.
And you thought, we just got away with one here.
We made it through the flood.
We heard all the wind blowing and howling and the rain and the storms and everything else, but we were one of the elect that got through.
Only to find out when the doors opened on the ark, the first thing no one wanted to do was sacrifice some animals.
Those poor animals that were part of that have had this false hope that they'd made it past the worst bit of it.
Anyway, I move on, I digress.
Abraham went to present Isaac his son upon a mountain.
He didn't go through with that.
God supplied a ram.
It was caught in the bushes and God provide a substitute sacrifice.
Israel, when it was going to be brought out of Egypt, God moved over the land of Egypt through bringing death
on the firstborns in house, but God through the blood of a lamb applied to the doorposts would pass over all houses that applied the blood.
And both Moses and Solomon in the tabernacle and the temple respectively understood the power of blood sacrifice on the altars.
God
throughout the whole of the Bible, he gives us a clear message that is repeated again and again and again and again.
If you want me to pass over your sin, if you want me to move on from your punishment, then there has to be a sacrifice.
Justice has to be served in some way.
And the justice of God is satisfied in the substitute death of Jesus.
The whole blessing of God, the whole of the package of the goodness of God is made available not on your merit, not on my merit, not on your goodness, but on the goodness, the faithfulness and the death of Jesus.
And that's amazing news.
That means that whether you have a good day or a bad day, whether you're on an up or a down, you're in a mountaintop experience or you're in the valley, the power of the cross is still available to you.
Because it's not about you, it's about him.
It's not about what you do, it's what Christ did.
It's not what you can pay or you can afford.
It's what the blood of Jesus has purchased for you.
And so many times as Christians, we live as if our experience of God is dependent on our own merit.
God, have I been good enough this week to deserve your goodness?
God, have I been good enough to deserve your favor?
God, have I been good enough for you to come through and answer my prayers?
God is not looking to you for the payment.
God has looked already to Jesus.
It's for us to receive.
It's Jesus who paid.
It's like we're at
that Monaco restaurant, and we're looking at all of the good things that God could supply us off the menu, but we're looking at each other.
Who has got the means to pay?
And Jesus says, it's all right, I've got my wallet.
And the payment will be my life that I will lay down for you.
So God has shown us in Scripture,
The time and time again, the pattern is where there are problems, there are sin, there are issues with human failure, then the payment for those things is death.
He initially
allowed his relationship with his people to move forward based on the sacrifice of animals.
But that was not enough.
He knew that one day a true and perfect payment needed to be made.
It was like those blood sacrifices of animals were kind of like building towards an like an IOU that eventually somebody had to pay the proper bill at the real price.
And that was Jesus.
And so Jesus dying for us.
is the key that unlocks it all.
And in the previous bits of Romans and they did a good job of sharing about this week, he made the case that all have sinned and all need this payment.
There isn't anybody outside of Jesus himself who had the sufficient integrity and means and morality in order to pay the price that was owed.
All of us have sinned and whether your mother to raise her or you were Adolf Hitler, everybody needed the blood of Jesus Christ to forgive them of their sins.
There was not one righteous other than Jesus.
There was not one good enough other than Jesus.
There was not one worthy enough other than Jesus.
There was no other who had the means but Jesus and no person will be ever able to stand before God and God look them in the eye and
getting to heaven on the merit of all that they do, only on the work of Christ.
But it's fair because it's open to all.
God is willing that none should perish, but all should come to everlasting life.
So what do we think about this more deeply in terms of justice?
I reflect it as I prepared this message
This presents some interesting challenges to our notion of justice.
Now I have to this point kind of drawn an analogy between the payment of a bill and the release of the goodness of the menu to the work of Jesus.
And I think sometimes when we reflect on the work of the cross and we think about the sacrifice of Jesus and the fact that God's justice is satisfied in his
His, Jesus' sacrifice, the Father is satisfied in that.
We think about this sense in which Jesus paid a price for us.
Now, if we were to think about that in financial terms, that can make some sense.
The idea that there is a bill to pay, we don't have the means for, and that substitute of Jesus' sacrifice or the Jesus' means to meet that payment is enough.
But not all the sins
A neat that the humans commit are neatly summed up in the idea of like the analogy of a financial payment.
If the tragedy struck our house that one of my kids has lost his life and somebody else was responsible for that.
And then my kids, sorry, my wife and my kids obviously left with the trauma of that, then there was a court appearance.
And the person who was responsible for the death of one of my children was brought before the courts.
And then somebody else offered to stand in their place for their crime, I wouldn't be happy.
Would you?
Would you be happy if the judge was to step down in place of the person who committed the crime?
I don't think so.
And so how do we, as Christians, reconcile some of the aspects of the justice of the cross?
Now, there are numbers of different ways I could go into here of how theologians over the centuries have wrestled with this
concept because in some ways we don't fully understand it.
In other ways, we wrestle with it because we feel that there is something a little bit missing in our sense of how justice is satisfied in the substitution of Jesus because some of the things that Jesus has substituted himself for cannot be summed up adequately in the analogy of a paying of a bill, of a financial debt.
there is something more significant going on.
And it's interesting when you look back to King David's life, King David who ruled Israel, who was the kind of the beginner of the, what we would describe as the messianic line of Jesus' life, being King and Messiah from the line, the lineage, the genealogy of King David.
There is this part in his life when he has seduced the wife of one of his
most significant military commanders.
A guy called Uriah, who was a Hittite.
While the kings were supposed to be going to war, Uriah the Hittite was away.
David spots this woman called Bathsheba, who he takes a fancy to.
And he makes the situation work to his advantage that he ends up seducing this woman, and they have a union.
That's, you know, Christians speak for coming together in a special way that adults come together.
And then realizing that he was in a bit of a pickle with this, because this woman still had a husband, he tries to cover his tracks.
And so what he does is he gets other people on his command to put Uriah at the front of the battle
in order that the battle would kill Uriah and something of the kind of the process of war would do the dirty work for David.
Now, initially this doesn't work, but eventually Uriah dies.
And David feels like he's managed to get away with it.
He thinks nobody has really found out, but God knew.
And God sends his prophet Nathan to challenge David.
And Nathan tells David this parable about this rich person taking this sheep from somebody else.
And David is indignant because it's just like this.
This is an injustice.
This shouldn't have happened.
That's not fair.
And Nathan says, you're that man.
That's you.
That's what you've done.
You have committed the injustice.
And there was something evidently in David that I think is relevant to all human people to want to bury accountability for sin.
That's the first thing, but God sees the second thing is this.
And David says this interestingly in Psalm 51 verse four, when David then begins a process of repentance to God, he says against you,
and you alone have I sinned."
Now, I read that and I thought, hang on.
No, no, no, no, not against God only of you sinned.
If you were Uriah's parents, would you be happy that David said against you God only of us?
And you'd be going, no, my family have also received the penalty of your sin.
Don't just make this about you and God having a little bit of a quiet time and basically trying to kick it under the carpet.
There are other people who face the consequences of this.
The blood of the child cries out from the ground, justice.
So how do we hold this together?
Well, in the story of David, something interesting happens.
God tells David that he shall not die, that his sins have been dealt with.
But the consequences of his actions would not be stopped.
there was a sense in which the sin has been dealt with by God, but the consequences of the sin still would rumble on.
And I think what we get in the cross of Jesus is not God overlooking every aspect of justice, but satisfying the needs of justice to release the forgiveness of sins, but that doesn't mean that Christians can get away with murder.
because God still believes in justice.
The thief on the cross next to Jesus.
There were two thieves on the cross, in fact, next to Jesus, one on his right and one on his left.
And they get into a little bit of a debate about who this Jesus was.
But one of them says, Lord, remember me when you come
into your kingdom.
And Jesus says to him, today you will be with me in paradise.
How did that day end for the criminal?
He still paid the price for his criminality, but the sin that would have kept him from the presence of God was dealt with in Jesus.
He carried the penalty in his own back for the problems he had caused, but the sins
penalty was paid for in Jesus.
So I think we have to be careful as Christians when we proclaim the love and the forgiveness of God that we don't cheap and justice as we do so.
Now I'm sure there will be some of you thinking okay okay well I get what you're saying but be careful Dave because sometimes God does allow humans to
either receive a lighter sentence or to be allowed a pass on some consequences of their actions.
There are stories that I've read, I believe, accredible, where people have maybe handed themselves into the police because of the conviction of sin of something that they did, and they were let off with some sort of pass, some sort of grace from the court system.
And you would think that maybe if they hadn't have
sought God's forgiveness, then maybe they might not have received such a kind of a commuted sentence.
There are seemingly times in people's experiences when, because they followed Jesus and they sought him in repentance, he's allowed them to receive grace in the consequences of the things that they have done.
That the punishment seems to be have
have been more gentle in some way.
But others, they have still paid the price to some degree for the consequences of their actions.
King David was forgiven for his wrongdoing and stands today in the presence of Almighty God, but there were consequences to his actions.
The injustice or the injustice of what he had done still required the fact that God couldn't just say, I can just
shove all this under the carpet.
I can't just pretend this didn't happen because there is love and mercy and grace but there is also justice as well in the cross of Jesus.
And so when we preach the cross, when we preach the blood
We are not saying you can do anything you want and get away with anything you want because Jesus paid for your sins.
Jesus paid the full price for your sin, but that is not to say that justice isn't fair and right.
And there are sometimes in the life, even of the believer, where we might like to get away with something, but God won't allow complete remission of consequence because he still upholds justice.
And that's great when we're thinking God's are acting out and getting justice on our behalf.
But what happens when we're the person who we want God to get justice, sorry, we're the person who somebody wants to get justice against, because something we have done.
There are times when we have to accept the fact that in the discipline of the human life, God allows consequences of his way of disciplining us towards holiness.
He allows consequences to happen to bring us towards repentance.
He uses that stuff in grace to lead us to a closer relationship with him.
And the final thing that we can do with all of this is that we then have to walk in a position of justice and grace in our own lives.
We have to accept there are consequences to actions.
There is sometimes justice that needs to take place in a human sense.
There are things that will rumble on.
There are consequences of actions that were done sometimes years ago.
But in the midst of that, the grace and the goodness of God is that he is using that stuff.
It's never wasted.
It's not just punishment.
discipline.
He's not using it to whack you over the head and say, well, I've forgiven you, but I'm going to allow life to give you a real big kicking just because I think you deserve it.
He will use all those things to lead us to greater and greater intimacy, to more and more holiness so that we can live lives that in terms of justice,
would lead us away from the types of things that would cause negative consequences for our lives.
We are people of truth and we are people of grace.
And so your challenge this week is this.
Your challenge is this week is think about those things
where God is using hardship, maybe a consequence of a mistake or something to bring you and score you closer to Him.
But also be prepared to walk in grace.
I think one of the reasons why there is a bit of a mystery over the justice and the grace of the cross is because if all sin
is owe to God, but there are consequences we often pay to one another.
If God is the only one to whom we have sinned, he has the right and he has the right alone to choose the terms of how that is satisfied for him.
And he is chosen to have his wrath and justice satisfied in the substitute death of Jesus.
But he also requires us to choose
to trust in the substitute death of Jesus as well, and to overlook at times the things in others where we would cry justice.
So where God has said, I will allow myself to be satisfied in wrath and justice for sin in the substitute death of Jesus, to not go after the blood of others for what the blood of Jesus has paid.
There are times when he then challenges us and saying, will you walk in that same grace?
Were you walking that same mercy?
Yes, there will be times when there are consequences that play out in our lives and consequences that will play out in the lives of others.
There are still court appearances for wrongdoing, even for the believer at times.
But there are moments when God puts in front of us an opportunity to walk in grace, to not ask for the justice we want from others because we are
recipients of grace from Jesus and we too have to be prepared to offer grace to other people.
We might feel at times, I deserve this from you but I am going to choose to trust that Jesus pays the price for sins and I got a gift that I don't deserve so I'm going to give you a gift that you don't deserve.
I am going to allow you
to be free from my anger and my bitterness and my frustration because that's what God has done for me.
And that doesn't dilute justice.
It just sets it in its proper place.
It recognizes there are times when consequences come because of actions and God is not being ungracious to allow that to happen.
He still upholds justice, but the
penalty of sin, of consequences is satisfied in Jesus.
And therefore he invites us to say, will you offer that grace to others?
I have been satisfied in the death of my son for you.
Will you be satisfied in the death of my son when you see and are confronted with the things that people have wronged against you?
And so we are people of grace and we are people of truth.
But ultimately it's the grace that shapes
us ultimately.
So this is the work of the cross.
This is the work of Jesus.
And this is the power of what we proclaim.
I don't think I finished that story about Billy Graham.
So I finished with this.
He preached about the blood of Jesus, all those references that I gave you.
And what happened at the end of that fourth night at Cambridge University that hadn't happened at any other night is 400 young men ran to the altar and gave their lives to the Lord.
There is one report.
I think it was from John Stott or another prominent Anken leader who's not with us anymore.
that the Anglican movement inherited a great number of its leaders for the next generation from people who gave their lives to Christ on that evening under the Ministry of Billy Graham.
He preached nothing but the blood of Jesus.
He emptied himself of all clever sayings and the thoughts of every philosopher that he thought would satisfy the desires of those who were listening the previous nights.
And he taught nothing else other than the blood.
And four hundred
documented salvation happen that night.
There is power in the blood of Jesus.
That does not overlook justice.
It satisfies it and gives God the possibility to offer grace while not overlooking justice.
And then the consequence of that is for us, there are times when we get
Don't get what we deserve.
And there are other times when God will allow us to get what we deserve in part to teach us a lesson, to bring us back to walking closer with him.
Because he doesn't dismiss justice.
He is just handled in a certain way in the blood and the sacrifice of Christ.
And we are to now walking grace and truth.
Grace and truth.
Let's close our eyes.
I'm going to read the verses of a song over you.
We sung a modern rendition of this song earlier, but the lyrics I'm going to share with you are the original lyrics of this hymn.
Just allow the Holy Spirit to minister these words to your spirit.
If there are things you need to confess to God, confess them.
I'm not going to come
on behalf of justice and punish you.
Bring all of those things to the feet of Jesus, and repentance will release you from the punishment of sin.
But also think, who, because of what Jesus has done, do I need to show mercy to?
The verse of this old hymn goes like this.
Would you be free from the burden of sin?
There is power, power in the blood.
Would you, over evil,
a victory win.
There is wonderful power in the blood.
There is power, power, wonder-working power in the blood of the Lamb.
There is power, power, wonder-working power in the precious blood of the Lamb.
Would you be free from your passion and pride?
There is power in the blood
There is power in the blood.
Come for a cleansing to calvary's tide.
There is wonderful power in the blood.
There is power, power, wonder-working power in the blood of the Lamb.
There is power, power, wonder-working power in the precious blood of the Lamb.
The final verse says, would you be whiter, much whiter than snow?
There is power in the blood, there is power in the blood.
Sin stains are lost in its life giving flow.
There is wonderful power in the blood.
Father over your family, your sons and your daughters, this morning over myself, we declare where there is confession of sin, there is remission of sin.
where there is confession of wrongdoing, there is forgiveness for wrongdoing.
Not one jot of the power of sin can remain where the blood of Jesus has washed it away.
But Lord God, we do also seek justice.
as we walk in mercy, both for ourselves and for others, and we pray that we will be people of grace, shaped with thankfulness for what you have paid, the price that we could not pay to live a life that we don't deserve because of all the things that Jesus did.
We just say thank you.
We thank you, God, for the power of the blood of Jesus that makes us white as snow.
In Jesus' name we pray,
We've come to the end of this week's message.
We hope you've been impacted and inspired.
Please keep up-to-date with everything that's happening by visiting our websites at www.livechurchburrington.com.